# My Project

## Overview

* The `src/app/pipeline.py` is the single main file which will run the 
whole pipeline end-to-end.  
* The `src/utils/` contains various utility functions that can be used.  
* The `src/data_prep/etl.py` is an example file which is triggered from
the pipeline file. This also shows how various utility functions can
be used.

## Folder Structure
```
.
+-- configs
+-- data
|   +-- raw
|   +-- intermediate
|   +-- processed
+-- docs
+-- logs
+-- src
|   +-- app
|   +-- data_prep
|   +-- utils
+-- .gitignore
+-- readme.md
+-- requirements.txt
```

* `configs`: Contains the various yaml configuration files used in the project
* `data/raw`: Contains the raw files that are being consumed by the pipeline
* `data/intermediate`: Contains the intermediate files that we generated by the pipeline either by reading raw data or by reading confguration files
* `data/processed`: Contains the processed final data files generated by the pipeline by consuming the raw or intermediate data files.
* `docs`: Contains the documentation files for this project
* `logs`: Contains the log files that are automatically generated by the pipeline
* `src`: Contains all the Python source code files of this project
* `.gitignore`: Contains the list of files that are not be ignored by GIT
* `readme.md`: This file. Contains the overview of important information about this project
* `requirements.txt`: Contains the Python dependencies of this project which can be parsed by pip and installed in a Python Virtual environment


## Executing a Python file

### Pre-requisites
* Anaconda is already installed and is added to the path. The command
`conda` works on the Terminal (Linux) or Command Prompt (Windows).

### Setting up the Python environment
* We can create a new conda environment specific for this project using
the `requirements.txt` as follows:
    ```shell
    cd <path_to_root_project_folder>
    conda create -n my_project_py37 python=3.7
    pip install -r requirements.txt 
    ```

### Steps to run a Python file
1. Open a Terminal or Command prompt and run the following command to
srt the Python path.  

    For Windows:
    ```
    set PYTHONPATH=%PYTHONPATH%;<path_to_project_root_folder>
    ```
    For Linux:
    ```
    export PYTHONPATH=${PYTHONPATH}:<path_to_project_root_folder>
    ```

2. On the same Terminal or Command prompt run the following commands:
    ```shell
    cd <path_to_root_project_folder>
    conda activate my_project_py37
    python src/app/pipeline.py
    ```